While i was with my mom my step dad showed me how to be respectful and he taught me things 
about the boy body my dad was not there to show me. I love my step dad and my dad but my step 
dad showed me how to be a young man. When my step dad passed I started to follow in his 
footsteps. Everything he taught me and showed me I try to do or keep with me to this day. My dad 
Robert is a good dad though both mario and Robert showed me different qualities. Mario showed me 
the ways to be a young man but my dad is here now. Our relationship isnt the same as it once was 
but he is trying his best. These past 3 years have been interesting. A lot of stuff has happened 
between me and my dad but I know he is trying his best and he is showing me how to live in big cities 
and how to be a social person. The qualities of being a good dad/father figure should be to show your 
kid love and how to be a mature respectful individual. Being a good father figure is not only being 
there for the kid, it's showing them how to grow up and how to move on from difficult times. The 
qualities of being a good father isnt buying love or spoiling a kid, it's showing the kid how to live life 
and how to react to problems little kids don't know how to react to. You don't have to be tough on the 
kid but show them the ways of life and how to be respectful

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.