2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest 
 Gisselle Garcia 
MIguel A Garcia 
Deadline:  
March 19 
5 grade 
Rachel Carson Elementary School 
Email Phone / Teléfono  
My father figure is a hardworking man.Him getting home in the sound of boots stomping on the 
floor of how tired he is of work. His day starts at 4:00am, he wakes up to get ready for work. 
Before he leaves to work he irons my clothes. He wakes me up right before leaving for work at 
5:30am. He drives 30 min to get to his job when there is no sunlight yet .He works for 12 long 
hours making orders and packing. When he gets home he does not hesitate to help my mom 
clean and cook if dinner is not ready. Already tired he does not give up. Once he is done we talk 
about how our day went and always share a laugh .All times when I break something he fixes it 
,in the end I realized he didn't really care about the broken item he didn't just glue the pieces 
back together but the patience and love as gold filled the cracks to make it back together. 
 
Even if he is gone most of the day he still makes time to play volleyball with me .If I did not have 
my father with me  I will not be standing here as tall as I stand today, with confidence and desire 
to chase my dream.Having my father in my  life  has strengthened who I am today. His 
compassion and love has made me a good person.   A better version of myself,he reflects my 
best self back to me even on those days when I feel shattered.Before he goes to sleep he 
makes sure I do  homework and understood it as well.

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto  
 
“I want the best for you. I want you to be a good person and smart even when the days are 
hard. For you to keep trying and keep going for the purpose of  learning more and head for your 
dreams and I will always be here with you no matter what happens in life.” - Miguel Garcia

Father-Figure / Figura Patern 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.

JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.