Illinois
Fatherhood 2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Initiative
Student's Name / Nombre del Estudiante
Deadline:
March 19
Adrian Iverson guit Grade/Grado 10th grade
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna
Phone/Teléfono
Chris
Email
School / Escuela Mundelein
Writing About Escribiendo Sobre:
Father / Padre
Chris 7373@gmail.224-358-1542 Grandfather Abuelo
"What my father or an important father-figure* means
"Lo que mi padre o una figura paterna importante* significa para mí"
Stepdad / Padrasto
Father-Figure / Figura Paterna
3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:
Reacción de padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:
I'I'm EXCITED that he Remembers those times because
I do as weLL & they mean ALOT to me as well. I love
time w/ him.
a father to Adrian
being
t
Spending
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbilshaman, God, or an ideal vision of a father.
*Una fiqura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán. Dios, o un visión ideal de un padre.
My dad by Adrian Iverson-Gutierrez
My dad isn't the type of person to be super serious when he comes home. It is with a smile and
hugs he makes us laugh with his jokes that my mom rolls her eyes. He also wasn't the type to
be distant he wanted to spend time with. But most importantly he was always very calm when I
wasn't.
When I was seven my dad said let's go to Dairy Queen. I don't know why we got ice cream and
it felt random but you can't complain about free ice cream. When we got to the Dairy Queen we
got our ice cream. Then we drove to the nearby lake. The sky looked big and orange pink light
scattered across it. It felt magical at the time, but as I got older we stopped doing it as much so
it felt less special over time but that first time will always be memorable.
When I was 14 years old, we were taking a family trip to Cancun, and we took a ferry to a
smaller island on that island. We took a small boat ride to a part of the island. The boat ride was
rough, the boat was fast and the currents created from other boats caused our boat to jump up
and down like a twisted form of a trampoline. I started to cry but my dad held my hand and he
made a promise that it was going to be ok. when the boat stopped so everyone could go
snorkeling, I was too scared to go, but instead of going my dad stayed to comfort me we talked
about superhero movies "whats your favorite superhero" he said I replayed with deadpool sense
we watched the first some what recently "whats your favorite part” he continued with the
questions I replayed with the opening fight scene. I didn't want to realize how much that helped
me. When we were going back to the original spot, my dad still held my hand but, the difference
was that any time there was a big bump I was calm.
Another instance of my dad being my shield is when I had to get a cavity removed. I have
sensory issues so the dentist is really difficult. Something as simple as a mirror is really difficult
for me. The dentist found the cavity in late July of 2024 and the removal was scheduled for
October 7th 2024. When the day arrived, I struggled with the smallest parts, and we had to
reschedule. felt like I failed him. The next cavity removal was scheduled for August of next year
.Fast forward a few months and the cavity removal is the next day. I was terrified but I think the
thing I was most worried about was failing dad again. The next morning we arrived at the dentist
and, for a few minutes, I thought the cycle was going to repeat. When I got in the chair I resisted
the nitrous mask, just deserted until I stopped resisting and just let them put it on. They waited
for the nitrous to take effect. I felt normal, and I didn't feel like it washed away but like it slowly
faded away without me noticing. The removal went smooth and when things got difficult during
the removal my dad held my saying "stay strong buddy”.
My dad has always had my back and protected me when I was scared while also spending time.
with us. Always coming home with a smile and a joke.