2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay: 
Reacción de padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:
3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres 
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a father.
*Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un padre. 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna
Email     
 
 
 
Phone / Teléfono
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" 
"Lo que mi padre o una figura paterna importante* significa para mí"
Grade / Grado
School / Escuela
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:
       Father / Padre
       Grandfather / Abuelo
       Stepdad / Padrasto
       Father-Figure / Figura Paterna
Deadline:
March 19
Efren Guerrero
Fatherhood Essay
Have you ever treated your dad like crap⋯ and later realize he didn't deserve any of it? I didnt realize 
it at the time but looking back now, he doesn't deserve the way I treat him. He's not just any dad– 
he's conscientious, resilient, and loving. The kind of man to keep going no matter the situation. I've 
done many things that I will always regret. Because we kids will never know when the last goodbye is.
I have regretted many decisions I have made, especially when it comes to how I have treated my 
dad. Sometimes I act like the things he does for me do not matter, even though deep down I know 
they do. My dad has done so much for me and has always been there for me my whole life. He has 
supported me and cared about me every single day. Even though he shows me love all the time, I 
have not always given him the chance to show it or appreciated it the way I should have.
My dad is a very conscientious father who does everything he can for me and my family. He always 
puts his family first no matter what and will do anything to support us. He protects me and makes me 
feel safe and taken care of. I know that he works hard because he wants the best for me and my 
family. He works everyday nonstop going in and out. He fixes problems fast and in a way I never 
knew how. He is loving and caring, and he shows it through the things he does for us every day.
My dad is always trying to make me laugh and just make me happy. He has these little jokes that he 
says every day, and honestly I love them because that is just who he is. There are moments where 
we laugh together and talk, and those are some of the best moments we share. Sometimes he tries 
really hard just to see a smile on my face, but I fake it instead. I do not always show him my feelings, 
even though I know he is trying his very best.
My relationship with my dad has not always been the best, and I know that I have not been the best 
to him either. But I know he loves me because he shows it every day and every hour. He has been 
there for me my whole life and continues to care about me no matter what. Now I try my best to show 
him that I love him too. I do not want to keep giving fake smiles or fake laughs anymore. I want him to 
know that I truly appreciate everything he has done for me, because he is a very good father and I 
love him so much. You never know when's the last chance to see him.
Efren Guerrero
EGuerrero34@cps.edu
773-308-3439
8th
Racher Carson

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.