Funny, Hardworking and Helpful. The best memory I have with my aunt is when we both had a day 
off and it was just us in her apartment. We were waiting for someone to come and check on the 
outlets in the apartment. First we had to jump her car because her car didn't start the day before. It 
was scary but thankfully I watched videos on how to do it the day before. The car started so she took 
it to the mechanic to figure out what was wrong with it. When she came back we decided to watch the 
original IT while we decided on what to eat. We decided to order Mexican food and we ate together 
while talking. That day felt amazing and I love when we can be alone together and have 
conversations that just flow together. 
My Aunt is the heart of my family because she's hardworking. I know she is a hardworking person 
because she does a lot for everyone in my family and still manages to hold herself together. She also 
works a lot just so my cousins and I can have food on the table. She's able to help out my mom, 
grandpa, cousins and still find time for herself. My Aunt does a lot for us and she isn't verbally 
thanked for it, but she still does it for us anyway. My Aunt is a very important part of my family.
Another way my aunt is  the heart of my family is that she's helpful . She's helpful because she helps 
me get through tough times. Like when the fire happened and me and my mom didn't have anywhere 
to go she helped us pick a place to stay.  So we ended up at the hotel and during this spring break, 
we are going to move into a temporary home. She also helps my grandpa by making his dinners and 
lunches during the weekend. She also helps my mom by getting us groceries and dinner. As you can 
see she is very helpful to my family.
   The final way my aunt is the heart of my family is that she is very responsible. She is responsible 
because she is very good at managing things. She is also the best with money. Also she can take 
care of my cousins, Me and my grandpa really well. Finally she is really good at managing bad 
situations . Like when the fire on my house happened she managed to comfort me and everyone 
while she was still processing it. Or when my other aunt wouldn't move out of  my grandpa's house 
she handled it calmly while she still had other feelings for it she did it the most responsible way. I 
know she wanted to do other things but she kept calm and she doesn't get thanked for this
Azucena Boyas
garciaethan606@gmail.co
773-540-8203
8
Rachel Carson Elementary

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.