2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest  
 
Student 's Name / Nombre del Estudiante Samuel Vidal Alpizar. 
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna jose 
luis. 
Deadline:  
March 19 
Grade / Grado 5th  
School / Escuela Rachel Carson Elementry school 
Email Phone / Teléfono  
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" "Lo que mi padre o una figura 
paterna importante* significa para mí"  
My dad is very hard worker because he can fix something broken or something broken around 
the house. My dad does construction work like he can fix like the stairs or something else that is 
broken. He is funny because sometimes he shows me something funny things or videos. My 
dad is responsible because he takes care of me and gives me something that I need because 
he is going somewhere.The dialogue about my father is that. He says something that is not 
intentionally not saying like if he says something that he didn’t mean to you he mean that he 
was saying don't do it. The actions from my dad is that. He protection that he can halp me not to 
get the fear that I don't want / like. The internal monologue about my father is that. I felt how 
hard working and should do the same things my father / dad. When he shows up every day first 
he does he wash his face then he brush his teeth and then eats and goes to work. The 
definition of my dad is that he takes me to school every day. And The contrast of my father is 
that he works a lot and gets money from the people that my dad was working on like fixing the 
stairs or something else that is broken. The takeaway from my dad is that. He gave me a gift 
from him because he had it when he was little he used to play with it but now he can’t because 
hes to old and he is big for it. The transformation of my dad is. He used to play with me but now 
he can’t because he has to go to work and take care the baby and also fixing some things.

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto

Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.

JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.