paterna importante* significa para mí"  
Knock,Knock,Knock my grandpa knocks on my door at 5:30 in the morning.He is going 
to take us to school,in his car. My Grandpa always tell me important things to remember.Before 
I go I get something to eat.He helps me in many stuff when I'm in trouble. This could help me in 
the future because it could make me more wise. 
When he is in my room he tells me to wake up and get ready for school.He always 
wears a black hat.Sometimes i wear them too when we go out somewhere.He always helps my 
whole family and tries to make me laugh a lot.He makes me laugh by dancing in the kitchen 
and making funny faces 
My life has changed a lot when I met my grandpa,because he has done so many good 
things for us.A gift from my grandpa is that he shows me jokes and dance moves.He shows me 
how to drive a little bit.My grandpa sleeps alot and me too because we are tired. 
My grandpa is almost always in the horse because he has a lot of free time.My grandpa 
means alot to me because he cooks for me and he makes me laugh.If i ever lost my grandpa I 
think that i would change alot and would be less happy.My life would be so different because I 
would be less wise and less funny.

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto

Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.

JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.