paterna importante* significa para mí" ​
—---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------​
  The door opens and a familiar smell of wood dust and fresh paint enters the house. It is 9:00 
p.m, I’m in my room and it is pitch dark outside. I get out of bed and put on my slippers. I quietly 
open my door. I then hide in the darkness, the floor creaking while I’m tiptoeing towards the 
backyard’s door, hiding in the darkness, and waiting for him to find me. 
  “I know you’re in here..”, he says in a playful, singsong voice. I see his shadow jerk his head 
from side to side, searching for my hiding spot. I giggle, forgetting I’m hiding. “Found you!”, he 
says, carrying me back to bed. He tucks me in and whispers, “Good night…”, then turns off the 
lights. I feel full of energy, but it quickly fades away. A few minutes later, I’m fast asleep.  
  My dad also shows up for me when I’m sick. One time, I couldn’t go to school. Even though he 
had to leave for work, he went to the store to buy me medicine instead of working. He then 
stayed for a few more hours then he was supposed to take care of me. For me, a father figure 
is someone who is funny, respectful, and smart. Without my dad, I probably wouldn’t know what 
“life” means. 
  Before, I used to think my dad left because he wanted to. Now, I know he kept on leaving 
because he wanted the best for me and my family. A gift I’ll always carry from my dad is the gift 
of intelligence. I open my eyes again, waiting for him to come once more.

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto  
 Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING

Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.  
JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.