2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest  
 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante  
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna  
Deadline:  
March 19 
Grade / Grado 5th 
School / Escuela Rachel carson elementary school 
Email Phone / Teléfono - Sflores114@cps.edu 
Vroom! There's a big truck full with stuff to repair all inside ready to be used, bumps making the 
car wobble but the truck keeps going. 
 My dad is tired but he still keeps driving, he sees a man surviving off the public bench, my dad 
tell his friend “hey, ima stop and park right here and help the homeless man real quick” his 
friend replies with “Ok!” After telling his friend that he's gonna help the man, he gets out of the 
car and goes to the man and offers him some money. The man agrees and my dad gives him 
ten dollars and thanks him, after giving the man some help my dad goes back to the car and 
then keeps driving over to the destination. 
At first when he saw the man, he told his friend “should we go help him?” and then his friend 
said “yes’ he gave him some money and joyfully smiled at him and then later he walked to the 
car and continued to drive to their destination. 
Every time we go to the store he donates while paying in the options of jewels. One time I was 
choking on a pretzel and he grabbed me and helped me stop choking while my face was 
purple. 
Ever since he's helped the homeless person i have been happily thinking about how he has 
done that.

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto

Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.

JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.