My father Manolo is a Mexican immigrant. He came to the U.S. when he was only 17. He came with both of his parents and when he came to the U.S he became an electrician. He was living in Chicago when he became an electrician. My dad risked his life to come to the U.S to have a better life. My dad is brave, active and hardworking and that's why he is my role model. My dad is brave because he crossed the border when he was only 17 years old. So many people have died crossing over to have a better life and he risked it to come here. My dad is brave because he risks his life everyday at work. Everyday my dad could lose his life because he is an electrician. When I was little my dad was swinging me around, he went to go get me a drink because I was thirsty, when he came back I was screaming very loud. My dad did not know why I was screaming until he saw that a snake was about to bite me and he killed it risking it could bite him too. My dad is hardworking because he spends all his time working to give us a better life. I don't get to spend much time with my dad because he works out of town. A father that risks his time for his family to provide them shelter and food on the table is a person that is hardworking. I miss my dad everyday and want to spend more time with him but I understand that he can't because he has to work. When my dad comes back home he still has to stuff around the house to help out for the time he is not home. My dad is active because he comes home from out of town and he still manages to have strength to do house chores. My dad loves to read when he is not doing anything. When my dad is in town he takes advantage and hangs out with his friends. My dad still does side jobs when he is home for people that need a good electrician. I would think that my dad would spend more time at home being away for the whole week just to leave again. Now that you know more about my dad, now you know why I said my dad is my role model. My dad is brave, hardworking, and active.