Illinois
Fatherhood 2022 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Initiative
Student's Name christian santacruz
"What My Father or an Important Father-Figure* Means to Me"
My father Manolo is a Mexican immigrant. He came to the U.S. when he was only 17. He came with
both of his parents and when he came to the U.S he became an electrician. He was living in Chicago
when he became an electrician. My dad risked his life to come to the U.S to have a better life. My
dad is brave, active and hardworking and that's why he is my role model.
My dad is brave because he crossed the border when he was only 17 years old. So many people
have died crossing over to have a better life and he risked it to come here. My dad is brave because
he risks his life everyday at work. Everyday my dad could lose his life because he is an electrician.
When I was little my dad was swinging me around, he went to go get me a drink because I was
thirsty, when he came back I was screaming very loud. My dad did not know why I was screaming
until he saw that a snake was about to bite me and he killed it risking it could bite him too.
My dad is hardworking because he spends all his time working to give us a better life. I don' t get to
spend much time with my dad because he works out of town. A father that risks his time for his family.
to provide them shelter and food on the table is a person that is hardworking. I miss my dad everyday
and want to spend more time with him but I understand that he can' t because he has to work. When
my dad comes back home he still has to stuff around the house to help out for the time he is not
home.
My dad is active because he comes home from out of town and he still manages to have strength to
do house chores. My dad loves to read when he is not doing anything. When my dad is in town he
takes advantage and hangs out with his friends. My dad still does side jobs when he is home for
people that need a good electrician. I would think that my dad would spend more time at home being
away for the whole week just to leave again.
Now that you know more about my dad, now you know why I said my dad is my role model. My dad
is brave, hardworking, and active.
Father/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:
3000 Character Maximum
i am proud of my son that he sees me this was and very proud of my said that i am an insparation to
my son
2000 Character Maximum
By providing a response and your email, IFI can provide information about various activities and resources.
Father/Father-Figure Name
Email manolosantacruz777@gmail.com
Phone: 3128712191
*A Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor, or coach. Can even be a mom, stepmom, grandmother, or aunt if there are no influential males in your life.