2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay: 
Reacción de padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:
3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres 
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a father.
*Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un padre. 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna
Email     
 
 
 
Phone / Teléfono
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" 
"Lo que mi padre o una figura paterna importante* significa para mí"
Grade / Grado
School / Escuela
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:
       Father / Padre
       Grandfather / Abuelo
       Stepdad / Padrasto
       Father-Figure / Figura Paterna
Deadline:
March 19
Nathan Vega
Its important to have a caring and loving father because a father should never have to not love a kid 
they created. They sha'll love there kid and make them think they are not no failure. They should 
make there kids feel like that they are a succes and not a dummy they should make them feel smart. 
A caring or a good father would make there kids feel good about them selfves and not force them to 
do good by taking there things away. 
My dad is a really good dad like when i mean good i mean good. I would choose him to be my dad in 
every life even if i got the option to choose a celebrity to be my dad, I would still choose him. I really 
love my dad he means alot to me even when he yells at me or we get in a argument i will still love 
him. Im glad he is my dad i don't know what i would do without him like he has helped me with my 
health stuff but not all the time. he is a good dad also because when im bored he takes me to places.
 Luis vega
773 641 6538
7th 
Rachecl carson

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.