paterna importante* significa para mí"    
 
 What my father figure means to me is that he is hardworking,kind,and smart.I put these details 
about my dad because when he comes back from work he smells like paint and he always 
comes late from work.I infer that he works hard since like I explain he always comes back from 
work at night and he always smells like paint when he comes back from work.My dad is kind 
because he always wants to do the best for others,and he always buys me stuff when we both 
go to the store and I can infer that he is kind since he always wants to do the best for others 
and always buys me stuff when we go to the store. 
   The mistake that I made was that I burned the food that we were supposed to eat but I 
messed it up but my dad was not angry but he wanted to help me to cook it again and me and 
my dad cooked it again and everyone liked it. 
   The moment that I explain in paragraph 2 is when I made a mistake when I was cooking but 
my dad was not mad but he had all his passion to show me again. 
 What a father figure means to me through his actions is that he is hardworking,smart,and kind.I 
believe he is smart since he always figures out solutions and he works at construction and they 
have to be smart. 
Who I would be without my dad is that I would not be patient,and I would not feel the same. 
My perspective has changed since my dad used all his passion to show me again how to do it.

The one thing that I would carry from him is being brave.I would carry this from him since he 
inspires me to be brave,and now I am brave because of him.   
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto

Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.

JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.