Abby Castaneda
Fatherhood essay
English
3/17/2026
My dad isn't the best person at explaining how he feels, yet I know that doesn't mean he doesn't
care. He is one of the most prominent figures in my life that taught me how to love. He taught
me how to overcome issues that come my way because that's life. When something bad happens
no matter what you have to keep moving forward. At times it might seem like everyone around
you is moving forward and leaving you behind but he taught me that when you feel that way
is
the time when you work even harder to catch up. He has helped me through so many things
which he is unaware of. My dad has worked unbelievably hard his entire life for me, my sister,
my mom himself, the people around him and the rest of my family. These things led me to
believe he is the most selfless person I have ever met in my life.
My dad was born in Mexico or more specifically in Ocotlan, Jalisco. He had 12 siblings along
with his mother and father. My dad grew up very poor and had to share everything and by the
age of 10 he was working in a bakery as a delivery boy to help support his family. One thing I
realized through my life is how appreciative my dad is of the small things he gets. Most things he
would appreciate is what people along with myself generally view as an everyday thing. When I
asked him why he has so much appreciation for small things he explained that when he was
younger he would see something as small as soda and chips as a major treat. A few months ago I
brought home a bag of Lays potato chips from school and I asked him if he wanted them, he
immediately took them and ate them quickly and I messed with him and said "wow you really
like these chips?". He told me a story of when he and his brother Ricardo were younger, one of
their more wealthy uncles, invited them to help out at a country club and they would get paid.
They agreed because it was easy money, they worked for about 3 hours helping serve and they
were paid a bit of money, yet along with the money they got a bottle of soda and a bag of lays
chips. My dad and his brother were in shock that they got soda and chips and were beyond
appreciative and my dad said it was one of the best things he ever tasted. For that reason it