became his favorite kind of chip and everytime he has a bag it takes him back to that day.
All his life my dad has had to work for what he has and has never had an easy way out. Not only
this but he constantly put others before himself. He has helped me and my family in every
possible way, shape, and form. I believe the best part of all he does is how little he notices he's
doing something nice. He just does, he doesn't expect in return. If you are a genuine person you
don't expect things in return for being a good person, you are just good. He has taught me that
nothing ever comes for free. You have to work for what you have if you want to make it. There is
no easy way in life, if you want the results you inspire to reach, you must do it yourself. He
taught me that we make our own paths. We make our own choices in life which will foreshadow
our future. Going through life we make small decisions we forget about that we don't think will
matter in the moment. Yet I was taught that every minor careless decision you make does affect
you in the long run. We chose where we go, and we chose whether to quit or use what we have to
move forward. My dad taught me that you can have absolutely nothing yet if you truly want
something so bad for yourself you can take nothing and make it into something for yourself.
In conclusion, my dad has raised me to be the absolute best version of myself that I can. At times,
like everyone else, he makes me mad especially when he has a temper but I realize he's just
human like everyone else. We all get one life and we are all living for the first time. He taught
me that it's okay to make mistakes and that if we didn't make mistakes we wouldn't be human.
All of us are imperfect and it's okay to be that too. He taught me to be confident in what I do and
to ignore people in life who try to discourage me. I love my dad so much and though at times I
feel too vulnerable to express it out loud I do. He has taught me almost everything I know and I
aspire to work as hard, love as much, and be as selfless as he is in my lifetime.