feel throughout your hardest times and your best times, making you feel seen, not giving up on you till 
you find yourself. Those qualities and many more describes my older cousin. She is very 
compassionate towards many people. My cousin helped me find myself during my hardest times, she 
showed me the real meaning of a real father figure. She taught me how to communicate about my 
feelings to other people other than her. One day I will have to communicate to someone else other 
than her which is not easy. I struggle a lot trying to communicate about my feelings to others, so 
knowing I was able to tell her about my life story really changed me as a person. She helped me 
realize that children have feelings too and should also be seen. She helped me heal from my past 
relationships from many people i struggled moving on with because of my attachment issues. My 
cousin is seen as a father-figure to me because everytime I need to talk to her about my emotions 
she lets me vent my heart out. She showed me listening to music helps heal the soul, and from there 
on I always listen to music to help me get my thoughts off my head. She helped me face my fears 
and helped me with my mental health. My cousin really does make me feel seen , everytime she 
listens to me explaning how hard life gets. She makes me feel some type of way ive never felt before 
which is a happy type of emotion. My cousin really tops all the qualities you need to accomplish to be 
seen as a father-figure. 
Brittany Rosales
8722095363
7
rachelcarson

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.