2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest  
 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante  
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna  
Deadline:  
March 19 
Grade / Grado  
School / Escuela  
Email Phone / Teléfono  
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" "Lo que mi padre o una figura 
paterna importante* significa para mí" my dad tap his boots. Where are you working at 6am 
cutting grass. My dad matters to me because he works a lot for i could live in my home forever. 
And i sometimes help him cut grass in the summer and he pays me like 20 to 30 dollarr. He 
said that i am a good cutting at cutting grass and that am a good worker. Every summer he tells 
me to work with him at cutting grass and I say yes 
. Like I go get the stuff for him for he could cut grass. Me and my dad take turns at cutting grass 
and after that I i use tye blower to blow the grass. I feel happy and my dad is proud for helping 
him cut the grass 
Every day my dad comes back at 6;50pm. A father figure mean to me that a father figure mean 
when you have similar reaction as your father. If everyone doesn't have a father figure we 
couldn't be similar to our father. If i didn't had one I'll be a lil sad but i will still be happy.  Feel 
safe with my father because he protected my family. 
l

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto

Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or 
father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.

JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.