2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest  
 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante Natalie Andrade 
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna 
Francisco Andrade 
Deadline:  
March 19 
Grade / Grado 5 
School / Escuela Rachel carson 
Email Phone / Teléfono   
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" "Lo que mi padre o una figura 
paterna importante* significa para mí"  
‘’Ring Ring’’ this is the sound that is always heard at 4:30 so my dad goes to work. My dad goes 
to the kitchen and I hear the sound ‘’gua  guah’’ I feel grateful because he always wakes up 
early  for my family to have a plate of dinner at our  table. This will help me in the future 
because I will know that they did a lot of hard work for us to have what we have and I will know 
that they were always on my side for me to be there. 
    When I do a mistake I will go with my dad because he would understand me and say ‘’Esta 
bien mija yo te voy a ayudar’’ And this make me feel proud because when I need something I 
will know how to count with and who to be with because he’s a great father in my life. 
                My dad shows up each day by waking up early and coming to my room to say ‘’Que 
te balla bien en la escuela mija’’ A gift that its really appreciated  is a mexico ticket because 
sometimes I don't behave and I don't listen to them and sometimes i not the best 
daughter.Thats why I think he’s a really good dad because he always try to be the best dad  
ever.! 
    My father makes my days when he’s tired but still takes the time to help my mom or my 
sisters.He represents me or my family for example when one of my family members needs 
something he will take his time even though he would be tired. My dad's actions make me feel 
happy because my classmates always give me compliments for being kind.

Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:  Reacción de 
padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:  
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:  Father / Padre  
 Grandfather / Abuelo  
 Stepdad / Padrasto  
 
Dads responses: Yo estoy muy feliz que mi hija piensa  eso de mi y que sea amable con sus 
compañeros porque el ejemplo que yo le doy a mis hijas yo quiero que lo sigan, y que me den 
buenas noticias de ellas.Por eso yo se que les doy un buen ejemplo como padre e hijas. 
 
 Father-Figure / Figura Paterna 3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres  
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres   
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a 
father. *Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un 
padre.   
CONTEST DETAILS  
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father 
or an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or

father figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or 
special  
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their 
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman,  
God, or an ideal vision of a father.   
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING  
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:  
1. How the essay describes the relationship.  
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure. 
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.  
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.  
JUDGING PROCESS  
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).  
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from 
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.  
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130 
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.  
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration. 
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.  
RULES  
1. One entry per person.  
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student. 3. All 
entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be able 
to return them.  
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media 
channels.  
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.  
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).  
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.  
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:  
1515 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.