Illinois
Fatherhood 2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Initiative
Student's Name / Nombre del Estudiante lize+1
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paternal
Email
alexander david Phone/Teléfono 224-245-6959
120217@gmail.com
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me"
"Lo que mi padre o una figura paterna importante* significa para mí"
Grade Grado
10
School/Escuela Muha
Deadline:
March 19
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:
Father Padre
Grandfather/ Abuelo
Stepdad / Padrasto
Father-Figure / Figura Paterna
3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:
Mi
Reacción de padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:
reacción fue Que Senti un niudo en la garganta Que no me pude
Contener & He Salleron
las
lagrimas Por 9 emos pasado Muchas cosas
de #1 W Princesa sigue echandole
Juntas Pero estoy muy orgullosa.
Muchas ganas te amo
LUCKO
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastorirabbilshaman, God, or an ideal vision of a father.
*Una fiqura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un fio, un pastor/rabinolchamán. Dios, o un visión ideal de un padre.
Never give up
Lizetl Molina
My mom was not a quitter; she always kept her head high, no matter how hard it got. She is the
strongest and most loving woman I have ever met.
She immigrated to the United States when she was 17. She left everything behind to try
to get more money and to help my grandparents. When she got to the United States, she
worked in a factory where she had to pack chicken. She had to wear several layers of clothes
because she felt like she was turning into a snowwoman. In that factory, she met my dad. They
dated and had my older brother. My grandma called me "Angelita". She wanted my mom to
name me that. My dad left when I was 2, and ever since, my mom has played both parts.
When I was 3, my mom told me that I was a "bebe arcoiris" which is a rainbow baby. I
asked what it meant; she said, " Tú eres un bebé arcoíris porque yo perdí a un bebé antes de
tenerte y es una bendición tenerte porque Dios te trajo." When I got older, my mom told me that
my dad left. I was confused, but I never asked why I was just happy my mom never left my side,
and that she didn't leave too. Whenever I was sad, my mom would say, "No importa lo duro que
sea o cuando estés a punto de rendirte, échale muchas ganas y sigue tus sueños. ¡Te amo
mucho!" This meant a lot to me and my mom is a strong and independent woman, and I have
always admired her for that.
I was 11, and my mom worked every single night, coming home at 6 am to wake me up
for school. Downstairs, it smelled as if I were at IHOP, with a plate ready with a huge breakfast.
When I was done eating, my mom would say, "ve por tu mochila y ponte los zapatos." She
would walk me to school since it was across the street. Once we got to the school doors, she
would say, "Ten un bonito dia en la escuela aprende cosas nuevas te amo". No matter how tired
she was from work, she always took me to school and made sure I had a full tummy. I'm so
lucky to have a mom who cares.
I'm 15 now in my culture. When a girl turns 15, they have a big party with a big dress, and
it's a one time, special thing. My mom originally wasn't going to have a party, but my uncle
ended up convincing her because he said he would help. She told my biological dad that she
was planning my quince and he said he would help look for the venue. He didn't end up helping
with anything. I was disappointed, but my mom told me, "No te preocupes, voy a hacer mi mejor
esfuerzo para que tengas tus quince." My mom still sent him the invitation, but he didn't show
up. The day of my quince I was hoping for a happy birthday from him. My mom ended up saying
happy birthday and brought me a caramel frappe from McDonald's. She always finds a way to
make my dreams come true and tries her best to get me everything I want and ask for.
I hope when I'm older, our relationship doesn't change. When I have kids, I can be just
like my mom, a strong and independent woman. She has taught me to never give up, no matter
how hard it gets.