I respect my father so much and he is such an amazing father. By the end of this essay hopefully you'll think about your own father. Will you ever remember your father for who he was? Maybe he was mean in your mind but he needed to keep you safe. My father means the world to me because he is a really brave, hard working, and a kind person and for these reasons my father means a lot to me. He is also honest, trustworthy, and hardworking. The reason why he is honest is because even if he doesn't want to let me down he has to tell me that he can't. The first reason why I'm thankful for my father is because he is a brave person. For example my father goes to work building homes and apartments which for some people is terrifying. Another example of why he is brave is that in the late nights of Chicago my dad goes out for a walk which is really dangerous. The final reason why my father is brave is because my dad works and roofs. For context if you didn't know roofs are very slippery and my father works on them. The second reason why I am thankful for my father is because I respect him. The first example of why I respect my father is because when he promises my brother or sister something he always manages to complete his promise. That's how he earned my respect. The second example of why I respect my father is when I make mistakes my father always tells me ways to improve my mistakes and he always helps me out. The final reason why I respect my father is because he is honest when he makes a mistake he always tells my mother the mistakes he made and that makes him earn my respect. The third and final reason why I'm thankful for my father is because my father is a kind person. The first example of why my father is a kind person is because he helps family members when they get in trouble. For example, if any of my family homes break once my father finds out he immediately helps them out and they are very thankful. The second example of why my father is a kind person is because he shows affection to me and the rest of my family. For example, he gives me and my siblings hugs at random times and that's how he shows affection. The last reason is because I see him helping out our neighbors from time to time when they have home trouble.