2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay: 
Reacción de padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:
3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres 
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a father.
*Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un padre. 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna
Email     
 
 
 
Phone / Teléfono
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" 
"Lo que mi padre o una figura paterna importante* significa para mí"
Grade / Grado
School / Escuela
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:
       Father / Padre
       Grandfather / Abuelo
       Stepdad / Padrasto
       Father-Figure / Figura Paterna
Deadline:
March 19
Najeri Florez
   My father is one of the most important people in my life currently. He is always there for me in so 
many ways; whether its during all my long sports seasons, band competitions, dance recitals, or if I 
just need to talk. He takes me wherever I want to go, creating many memories and experiences for 
me to have during my teenage years. He provies me with everything I need and want, ensuring I 
have the resources and knowledge to pursue my passions in life. 
  One of things I appreciate most is my dads unwavering support during my various sports seasons. 
He attends all my games and only has missed two games due to be out of town for work. He attends 
my games, cheers me on, and encourages to improve everyday. His belief and encouragment in me 
motivates me to work harder and trive for excellence. 
  My fathers presence in my life has shaped me into the hardworking, ambitious, and driver person I 
am today. His love, support, and guidance have given me the confidence to face challenges and 
pursue my dreams. I am truly greatful to have a wonderful dad in my life that loves me, and I cherish 
him everyday. 
Henry Florez
286190florez@student.dls
10th
De La Salle Institute

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.