everything, he has always made sure his little girl had everything. My dad is truly the biggest blessing 
in my life, he has done so much for me and my family, to the point I don't know where I will be without 
him. My dad is hard working and always working on a 9-5 on weekdays, and on weekends he is with 
us. He works hard and deserves anything good coming in his life. My dad was born in Mexico and at 
15 he traveled by himself to the U.S for a better life and education. He met my mom at a young age 
and they had a kid so young, ever since he was young he worked to support his family. He made 
sure me and my siblings had everything, seeing my dad come too far just shows what a blessing it is. 
My dad also gave the best advice and always told me not to take anything for granted and never give 
up. Whenever my dad gives me this advice, I realize how real this is. My dad has suffered and has 
grown and is still learning. I can’t imagine my life without him, I know one day he’ll be gone or I’ll 
be gone, but I try to enjoy every minute I am with my dad. I love my dad so much and it’s his first 
time living too, just like me. But he has made me so proud and proud of where I come from because 
of my dad. Yo amo mucho a mi papa!
My dad was very proud and happy to see what I have written to him. 
Manuel Rincon
286705rincon@studnet.dls
733-299-2636
10th
De La Salle Institue

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.