Illinois
Fatherhood 2022 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Initiative
Student's Name Francely Pacheco
"What My Father or an Important Father-Figure* Means to Me"
My father was born in Mexico. That's were he met my mom they met around the age 15 or 17. He
mostly spend his time at the arcade. He loves video games a lot and still plays it on his free time. Also
he likes to cook and clean most of the time as well. He watches scary, adventure, and action movies.
My father has impacted my life.
My father is very helpful. One time we went to the store. We saw an old man stuggling (he stuggled
with walking) with his grociers. My dad has offered him a ride home because he also had groceries.
He also clean and cooks so my mom doesn't do much work, because she always comes from work
tired and just want to lay down. Another time we were walking home and took all the groceris. Hes
also fixed a lot of things around the house for example a table, TV, phone, etc. And hes cleaned a lot
my room because its sometimes a mess and he cleans it up.
He's also very caring because he makes sure we eat and have good hygene. He would come into my
room to ask if I ate or not. And if we respond with no he would ask if we want anything to eat or takes.
us out sometimes to eat something. Even ask us about our day, how was school, and if anything
interesting happened. Another thing he does is makes sure were ok and if were doing well. He cares
a lot about my family's feelings and well being. He constantly checks up on us.
Another great quality he has is hes funny and fun to hang out with. Every time were being serious he
always says something funny out when were sad to lighten up the mood. He also says a bunch of
jokes at random times. His big quality is being really funny cause it stands out a lot. He does a lot of
fun things as well and takes a lot of risk most of the time.
In conclusion what my father figure means to me is being there for me and a role model for me. I'm
really proud of him most of the time I know he always tries his best to be a good dad. Almost all his
qualities are really good that's why a lot of people look out for him. I admire him a lot he is a big role in
my life since I was little. He never dissapoints to make people smile and that's what makes him so
loveable. I'm glad he was always there for me when I needed him.
3000 Character Maximum
Father/Father-Figure reaction to this essay:
Its so nice being your role model/figure. I try to be the best to be a great dad. Again its nice knowing
im a father figure it means alot to me that you have always looked up to me. I will continue to be a
figure with you. I appreciate you writing about me. I also hope im a role model to your brothers and
sister. It feels like im doing a good job at being a parent so thank you again for writing about me I
always wanted to inspire you and I wanted you to have a great role model growing up.
2000 Character Maximum
By providing a response and your email, IFI can provide information about various activities and resources.
Father/Father-Figure Name Frank Hernadez
Email cinthiapacheco982@gmail.com
Phone: 872-348-2241
*A Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor, or coach. Can even be a mom, stepmom, grandmother, or aunt if there are no influential males in your life.