My father was born in Mexico. That's were he met my mom they met around the age 15 or 17. He mostly spend his time at the arcade. He loves video games a lot and still plays it on his free time. Also he likes to cook and clean most of the time as well. He watches scary, adventure, and action movies. My father has impacted my life. My father is very helpful. One time we went to the store. We saw an old man stuggling (he stuggled with walking) with his grociers. My dad has offered him a ride home because he also had groceries. He also clean and cooks so my mom doesn't do much work, because she always comes from work tired and just want to lay down. Another time we were walking home and took all the groceris. Hes also fixed a lot of things around the house for example a table, TV, phone, etc. And hes cleaned a lot my room because its sometimes a mess and he cleans it up. He's also very caring because he makes sure we eat and have good hygene. He would come into my room to ask if I ate or not. And if we respond with no he would ask if we want anything to eat or takes. us out sometimes to eat something. Even ask us about our day, how was school, and if anything interesting happened. Another thing he does is makes sure were ok and if were doing well. He cares a lot about my family's feelings and well being. He constantly checks up on us. Another great quality he has is hes funny and fun to hang out with. Every time were being serious he always says something funny out when were sad to lighten up the mood. He also says a bunch of jokes at random times. His big quality is being really funny cause it stands out a lot. He does a lot of fun things as well and takes a lot of risk most of the time. In conclusion what my father figure means to me is being there for me and a role model for me. I'm really proud of him most of the time I know he always tries his best to be a good dad. Almost all his qualities are really good that's why a lot of people look out for him. I admire him a lot he is a big role in my life since I was little. He never dissapoints to make people smile and that's what makes him so loveable. I'm glad he was always there for me when I needed him.