Guadalupe custodio
Rachel carson School 6th grade
When I think of my father I start to remember all those good fun, cool
memories.He's hard working, he's and always there when I need his help, always
keeping my head no matter what. He works so he can bring money and earn more to
the house. My father means the world to me because he's hard working, perfect dad,
perfect dad, and a good cook.
My father is a hard working man. For example, he works at his job so he can get
money and earn money. He wakes up so early so he can go to work and he is super
strong for himself and my family. He is always doing good things also on his job they pay
him well. And Also he never gives up for himself and my family and me, my dad makes
me laugh smile and also he makes me happy, he helps me with everything. I love him so
much since was super young because he's amazing and always will be.And sometimes
when we go out or i ask him if he can buy me whatever I want like
food, candy, bracelets, clothes, necklaces, ariZona drinks and some other more stuff that I
ask my dad to buy me. As you can see my father is hard working.
I think that my father is a perfect dad. For example, he's perfect because he has
a good and cool personality. Another reason is that my father is always there when I
need him. For example, he makes me feel safe around him. He always protects me no
matter what and he sometimes says "Ten cuidado con quien te juntas," which means
"be careful who you hang around with" in Spanish. These are some of his safe words
that he says to me. He's always being cool trying to do the best for me and my family.
The last reason that my father is important to me is because he's a good person.
For example, he gets out of work, he comes to the house tired, and he still makes
dinner for me and my siblings. He makes delicious food too. For example, he makes
Mexican food and he doesn't need an ingredient book. He remembers the ingredients
by memory and that is one of my favorite Parts about him. This makes my father smart
and shows a lot of effort.
My father is important to me because he's a good hard working man, amazing
dad, and a fun man. My dad to me is like my friend that I can tell everything no matter
what happens. He's always there for me when I really need him the most. He's always
and forever going to be there for me because he's always taking care of me and also
my siblings. To me my own dad is perfect because I see him as fun, chill, cool, and a
nice person. And to me, I also see him as a fun man because he makes me laugh,
smile, and he also takes me to so many stores so I can buy whatever I want. And he's a