2026 IFI Fatherhood Essay Contest
Father/Grandfather/Step-Dad/Father-Figure reaction to this essay: 
Reacción de padre/abuelo/padrastro/figura paterna a este ensayo:
3000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres
2000 Character Maximum / Máximo de Caracteres 
* Father-Figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, pastor/rabbi/shaman, God, or an ideal vision of a father.
*Una figura paterna puede ser un padrastro, un abuelo, un tío, un pastor/rabino/chamán, Dios, o un visión ideal de un padre. 
Student’s Name / Nombre del Estudiante
Father/Father-Figure Name / Nombre del Padre/Figura Paterna
Email     
 
 
 
Phone / Teléfono
"What my father or an important father-figure* means to me" 
"Lo que mi padre o una figura paterna importante* significa para mí"
Grade / Grado
School / Escuela
Writing About / Escribiendo Sobre:
       Father / Padre
       Grandfather / Abuelo
       Stepdad / Padrasto
       Father-Figure / Figura Paterna
Deadline:
March 19
Melissa Rojas
What makes a good Father-figure, is someone who cares for you and is always there for you when 
you need. Someone you can look up to and someone you can trust with all your heart. Someone who 
can take respondsibilties for you and always motivate you. 
My mom is a good father-figure because she's always been by my side when i needed someone. She 
does put to much presure on me, because she believes i'll do good in life. She cares for me and my 
health, she notice when something is wrong with me or my siblings. I can always count on my mom 
because i know ahe going to be there for me when i have no friends, no job in the future, a family in 
the future and more. She helps me clean and cook and other things I need to learn when I get older. 
She's a good person, a good friend and a great mother, she always cooks and clean, and takes her 
time to do favors for others. Even though i can be hard on her i still love her and she's always taking 
the respondaiblities for my brother's bad behavior.She always has positive energy, even when she 
feels sad or needs to cry she puts a smile on her face for me. Even when my whole family is mad at 
me, she always takes my side and defends me every single time. I can tell her everything although 
when the conversation isnt serious we she jugdes but most of the times she does. A lot of people 
take advantage of her but she wont let anyone hurt any of her kids or family members. Although my 
father was never really there for me or in my life i consider my mom as a mother and father. Thats 
what makes my mom a good father-figure.
Yesenia Alvarez
melissarojalv1105@gamil
773 875 1289
203
Rachel Carson

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.