My dad has always been there for me, even though he doesn't live with me any more. He's taught me 
so much, and has made sure to always take care of me. People don't understand him. He seems 
weak and old, but we see him as smart and collected. My dad made sure to teach me that a man 
doesn't mean to have big muscles, talk loudly, be impulsive or even to be rich. He has taught me that 
a man means to be calm, collected and to put others before myself. I have never really had any 
frustrations with my father, he's always been very understanding, and never makes me feel less 
about anything. One of my favorite memories that I have with my dad is going out for ice cream with 
him, during my sister's dance practice. There was time I had to go with him and we hadn't eaten, so 
we would go to this local taco shop and he would get me a bag of little chips that I really liked. My dad 
has shown me that a man can show his emotion, its one of the best things he's shown me because in 
doing so it allowed me to express myself. This was very important to me because it has allowed me 
to express my emotions, and has enabled me to get a lot of weight off my shoulders. 
Jose Castro
280100castro@student.dls
872-218-6358
12th
De La Salle

CONTEST DETAILS
Each student is asked to write a 3000 character (or less) essay on the theme “What My Father or
an Important Father-Figure Means to Me,” describing their relationship with their father or father-
figure. Students should share their true feelings. Provide examples of joys, frustrations or special
memories they have as well as commenting about what they would most like to see in their
relationship. A father-figure can be a stepdad, grandfather, uncle, coach, pastor/rabbi/shaman, 
God, or an ideal vision of a father. 
CRITERIA FOR ESSAY JUDGING
Submissions will be evaluated according to grade level. Judging criteria will consist of:
1. How the essay describes the relationship.
2. Detail and stories that demonstrate the character of the father/father-figure.
3. Honesty, clarity, simplicity of writing.
4. Overall grade level appropriate writing skill.
JUDGING PROCESS
1. Essays will be divided into the 13 grade levels (K-12).
2. Volunteers will use the above judging criteria, reading every essay. Top essays from
the first round will be sent to a final essay reading session.
3. At the final essay reading, volunteers will then select 10 essays per grade. Up to 130
essay semi-finalists will receive special recognition.
4. The top 13 essay writers will be invited to the IFI Fatherhood Dinner Celebration.
5. All entrants will receive a Certificate of Participation.
RULES
1. One entry per person.
2. All essays must be original, unaided by AI and created by the student.
3. All entries become the property of Illinois Fatherhood Initiative (IFI). IFI will not be 
able to return them.
4. Entry into the contest transfers copyright of the essay to IFI and grants IFI 
permission to reproduce without compensation all or any portion of the essay and 
response on an unlimited, world-wide basis in its publications and media channels.
5. When appropriate and with parent/guardian permission, IFI will cite the name of the 
author(s) if significant portions of a positive essay/response are used. IFI will also 
change or conceal names to maintain confidentiality if requested.
6. Contest is open to Illinois students (K-12).
7. Deadline for upload or postmark is March 19th.
8. Completed forms can be uploaded on 4dads.org or mailed to:
 
51
1
5 S. Grove Avenue, #3667, Barrington, IL 60011.